Readme.md, before:

# ocm-workspace
A containerised workspace for running OpenShift Dedicated (OSD) cluster management tools (e.g. ocm-cli, oc, etc).

# Goal
Provide a deployable, extensible and isolated (container-isolation only) workspace for managing OSD clusters.

> **Important:** ocm-workspace is a user container workspace which is intended to be customized by the user only and not a means to control "how to do" things.

# Prerequisites
1. Clone this repository.
2. Installed podman, golang and make binaries.
3. A configuration file located in `/home/<user>/.ocm-workspace.yaml`. See [configuration](#configuration)


# Build, Install, and Build the Workspace Image
To install the ocm-workspace binary in your $GOPATH, run the following.

```
$ cd ocm-workspace
$ make all
```

# Log into an OSD cluster
To run by logging into an OSD cluster run the following.

```
$ workspace login -c <cluster_name or id>
```

A container will be created (see `podman ps`) and a bash terminal will be provided for running cluster management commands. The following operations are executed automatically:

- OCM Login
- OpenShift cluster login

```
[<user>@<cluster name or id> <current kubernetes namespace>]$
```

# Run ocm-workspace without logging into an OSD cluster
```
$ ./workspace login --isOcmLoginOnly
```

A container will be created and bash terminal will be provided for running cluster management commands. The following operations are executed automatically:
- OCM Login

# Launch an OpenShift console for a running ocm-workspace container
**Steps**
1. Get the running ocm-workspace container name by searching it in `podman ps`. The name is in the form of `ow-<cluster name>-uid`
2. In the running ocm-workspace container get the value of the environment variable `OPENSHIFT_CONSOLE_PORT`.
3. Run the follwing command.

```
$ ./workspace openshiftConsole -c ow-<cluster name>-uid <value of OPENSHIFT_CONSOLE_PORT>
```
4. The OpenShift console will be available in your browser.

```
http://localhost:<value of OPENSHIFT_CONSOLE_PORT>
```


# Mimimum Required Configuration
**Prerequisites**
1. `.ocm-workspace.yaml` in `/home/<user>/.ocm-workspace.yaml`
2. `config.<prod|stage>.json` in `/home/<user>/.config/backplane`

For more information see [config.md](./config.md).

**Steps**
1. Create the expected configuration file.
2. Configure the minimum items like the following.

```
# OCM/OSD
ocUser: <OCM user name>
ocmEnvironment: <production or staging>
backplaneConfigProd: "<production backplane config file path>"

# Host
userHome: "<Path to user's home directory.>"

# container build params
baseImage: "fedora:37"
ocmCLIVersion: "0.1.60"
rhocCLIVersion: "0.0.37"
backplaneCLIVersion: "0.1.2"
```

# Service Reference Configuration
A service reference can be added in the configuration file to enable tool features relevant to a certain service. This feature is useful for accessing a service (e.g. web console) from the ocm-workspace's host. Note that from the host's side, its port is only accessible through the loopback interface.

For example the following will automatically forward the specified ports of service `nginx` to an ocm-workspace port that is also mapped to a host port.

```
# forward to host mapped ports
services:
  - name: nginx
    forwardPorts:
      - name: prometheus-console
        namespace: nginx
        source:
          kind: pod
          name: nginx-prometheus
        port: 9090
      - name: alertmanager-console
        namespace: nginx
        source:
          kind: pod
          name: nginx-alertmanager
        port: 9093
```

Commit message:

added warning for usage of code after 1.0.0-beta version

Readme.md, after:

# ocm-workspace
A containerised workspace for running OpenShift Dedicated (OSD) cluster management tools (e.g. ocm-cli, oc, etc).

> **WARNING**: The code after version `1.0.0-beta` has several breaking changes due to a major rewrites. Please only use this document for version `1.0.0-beta`.

# Goal
Provide a deployable, extensible and isolated (container-isolation only) workspace for managing OSD clusters.

> **Important:** ocm-workspace is a user container workspace which is intended to be customized by the user only and not a means to control "how to do" things.

# Prerequisites
1. Clone this repository.
2. Installed podman, golang and make binaries.
3. A configuration file located in `/home/<user>/.ocm-workspace.yaml`. See [configuration](#configuration)


# Build, Install, and Build the Workspace Image
To install the ocm-workspace binary in your $GOPATH, run the following.

```
$ cd ocm-workspace
$ make all
```

# Log into an OSD cluster
To run by logging into an OSD cluster run the following.

```
$ workspace login -c <cluster_name or id>
```

A container will be created (see `podman ps`) and a bash terminal will be provided for running cluster management commands. The following operations are executed automatically:

- OCM Login
- OpenShift cluster login

```
[<user>@<cluster name or id> <current kubernetes namespace>]$
```

# Run ocm-workspace without logging into an OSD cluster
```
$ ./workspace login --isOcmLoginOnly
```

A container will be created and bash terminal will be provided for running cluster management commands. The following operations are executed automatically:
- OCM Login

# Launch an OpenShift console for a running ocm-workspace container
**Steps**
1. Get the running ocm-workspace container name by searching it in `podman ps`. The name is in the form of `ow-<cluster name>-uid`
2. In the running ocm-workspace container get the value of the environment variable `OPENSHIFT_CONSOLE_PORT`.
3. Run the follwing command.

```
$ ./workspace openshiftConsole -c ow-<cluster name>-uid <value of OPENSHIFT_CONSOLE_PORT>
```
4. The OpenShift console will be available in your browser.

```
http://localhost:<value of OPENSHIFT_CONSOLE_PORT>
```


# Mimimum Required Configuration
**Prerequisites**
1. `.ocm-workspace.yaml` in `/home/<user>/.ocm-workspace.yaml`
2. `config.<prod|stage>.json` in `/home/<user>/.config/backplane`

For more information see [config.md](./config.md).

**Steps**
1. Create the expected configuration file.
2. Configure the minimum items like the following.

```
# OCM/OSD
ocUser: <OCM user name>
ocmEnvironment: <production or staging>
backplaneConfigProd: "<production backplane config file path>"

# Host
userHome: "<Path to user's home directory.>"

# container build params
baseImage: "fedora:37"
ocmCLIVersion: "0.1.60"
rhocCLIVersion: "0.0.37"
backplaneCLIVersion: "0.1.2"
```

# Service Reference Configuration
A service reference can be added in the configuration file to enable tool features relevant to a certain service. This feature is useful for accessing a service (e.g. web console) from the ocm-workspace's host. Note that from the host's side, its port is only accessible through the loopback interface.

For example the following will automatically forward the specified ports of service `nginx` to an ocm-workspace port that is also mapped to a host port.

```
# forward to host mapped ports
services:
  - name: nginx
    forwardPorts:
      - name: prometheus-console
        namespace: nginx
        source:
          kind: pod
          name: nginx-prometheus
        port: 9090
      - name: alertmanager-console
        namespace: nginx
        source:
          kind: pod
          name: nginx-alertmanager
        port: 9093
```
